glossary update (#5266)
prebid/prebid.github.io: overview/glossary.md

- TOC
{:toc}

## Ad Formats

This section contains terms around ad formats and their respective configuration.

### MediaType or Media Format

`banner` - also called 'display', these ads are generally simple rectangular images.

`native` - the components of this mediatype like text, links, and images are all separated so they
can be formatted to smoothly fit into the content.

`video` - see Player-Initiated Video and Page-Initiated Video

### Multiformat AdUnit

An AdUnit that can display creatives of multiple media formats: banner, native, and/or video.

> ### Page-Initated Video

Reviewer: I'm not familiar with this terminology. Where is it from ?

Author: We discussed this a few months ago, but perhaps you weren't in that meeting? I dislike the IAB's new terminology for "outstream".

> Also called 'outstream', these are AdUnits that work in Prebid.js just like banners, but are displayed with

Reviewer: > AdUnits that work in Prebid.js just like banners

What do you mean by "works just like banners" ? I think this might be misleading, as it sounded to me that outstream video is as easy to setup as banner ads.

Author: How about "renders like banners"?

a special 'renderer' to play a video ad instead of a static image.

### Player-Initiated Video

> Once called 'instream', these are AdUnits that live within a video player.

Reviewer 2: Should we link to https://github.com/InteractiveAdvertisingBureau/AdCOM/blob/develop/AdCOM%20v1.0%20FINAL.md#list_plcmtsubtypesvideo and mention the new `plcmt`  video subtypes as well here?

I'm not to familiar with it, but @karimMourra and @fowler446 are. WDYT guys?

Reviewer: I'd say plcmt can be described elsewhere; `instream` doesn't entirely map to a value in plcmt since there are other considerations.

Reviewer: Not sure if "lives within a video player" is the right terminology since video players can render non linear ads which are "in-video banner ads" essentially. 
I would suggest
```suggestion
### Page-Initated Video

Also called 'outstream', these are AdUnits that work in Prebid.js just like banners, but are displayed with
a special 'renderer' to play a video ad instead of a static image. Said renderer only renders the ad and does not render content.

### Player-Initiated Video

Once called 'instream', these are AdUnits that are rendered in a video player before, during or after content.
```

> a special 'renderer' to play a video ad instead of a static image. Unlike 'player-initiated' units (aka 'instream video'), this renderer only renders the ad and does not show content.

Reviewer: Having read the GAM documentation https://support.google.com/admanager/answer/9606829?hl=en&ref_topic=9596566&sjid=8628919592789708366-SA, I understand why we group `outstream` into banner, but it's purely because of the way GAM treats outstream today. 
Fundamentally though, outstream is video. Are we building a Product that is meant to work exclusively with GAM ? Or do we want to be Ad Server agnostic ? I would like to decouple prebid as much as possible from GAM, and have translation layers to convert formats to GAM accepted values.

Author: Thanks for the review @karimMourra - there've been several discussions on this recently. Prebid defines "outstream" as "in-page video", which is rendered by wrapping it with arbitrary HTML/Javascript rendering logic. This differs from "in-player video", which cannot handle HTML/javascript, and just expects a VAST URL.

In fact, the Prebid Mobile team has agreed to change their implementation of outstream to support renderers. 

This way of looking at the world is not tied to GAM.

Discussed in docs committee - we're going to merge what we have here, which is again, quite general and not tied to GAM. We can definitely pick up this thread again in the video committee to refine the wording.

## Ad Tech Industry

Ad Server, SSPs, DSPs, etc.

## Client Side Header Bidding

The auction takes place on the client device of the user.
Prebid.js is a client side bidding solution.

[Prebid Server]: /prebid-server/overview/prebid-server-overview.html
[Prebid Adunit]: /dev-docs/adunit-reference.html
[Prebid Line Item Manager]: /tools/line-item-manager.html

### Direct Sold Ads

Ads sold by a publisher's sales staff and entered directly into the ad server.

### Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB)

The [IAB](https://www.iab.com/) is the ad tech industry standards body.

### Programmatic Ads

Ads delivered either through an open marketplace through an auction, or as a pre-arranged "deal" that was initiated through systems outside of the publishers ad server.

## Server Side Header Bidding

The header-bidding auction takes place on a server. Notable server side bidding systems are

- [Prebid Server]
- [Amazon TAM](https://aps.amazon.com/aps/transparent-ad-marketplace/)
- [Google OpenBidding](https://support.google.com/admanager/answer/7128453?hl=en) formerly known as Exchange Bidding.

## Ad Server

> A system that allows a content publisher to manage their portfoliio of ads and deliver those ads according to the defined targeting and pacing rules.

Reviewer 3: Hi, you misspelled "portfolio".

implementation) to the AdUnit, (the sellable item).

### AdUnit

`Ad servers such as Google Ad Manager` - the AdUnit is the thing that business people care about. It's an
inventory concept targeted by [line items](#line-items).

[Prebid Adunit] - Prebid adds another layer to the ad server AdUnit: which header bidders should participate in the auction and their parameters.

### AMP

Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP) is an alternate web platform that can speed web pages on mobile devices, but
also limits the scripts that can be run on the page. See [Prebid's AMP page](/formats/formats.html#amp)

### GPID

A Global Placement ID (GPID) is a unique ad slot identifier. e.g. on infinite scroll pages the same sized adunit may be dynamically created each page that the user scrolls. On the 5th instance of a given adunit, the unique GPID might be `/home/med-rect#5`.

### PBAdSlot

Deprecated - this was Prebid's attempt at a unique placement ID before GPID came around.

## OpenRTB

[Open Real Time Bidding](https://www.iab.com/guidelines/openrtb/) is a protocol defined and managed by the IAB for transacting programmatic ad auctions.

> ### Loss URL (lurl)

Reviewer 2: lurl, nurl... wasn't there als *b*url? - billing URL?

Author: added burl, fixed nurl.

Integrating Prebid bids with other ad sources requires a [special line item setup](/adops/adops-planning-guide.html) if you aren't using an ad server that supports Prebid natively, which most don't.
The [Prebid Line Item Manager] can help set up GAM line items. GAM 360 has the beginnings of a [native Prebid integration](https://support.google.com/admanager/answer/12273163?hl=en).

### Key Values

A generic way to target [line items](#line-items) in your ad manager. Prebid makes heavy use of key values to indicate the winning bidder and the winning bid price.

## Inventory

A description of the context where an ad may be served.

### AdSlot

The 'hole' in the web page or mobile app where an ad may appear. This is very similar to `AdUnit`, but is
the technical implementation defining which ad sizes and formats may appear within it.

> In the "Google Publisher Tag" (GPT), the "defineSlot()" function call maps an HTML div (the technical

Reviewer: Is AdSlot just a GPT term that we've adopted ?

Author: adslot is an attempt to differentiate the implementation (e.g. a div) from the metadata about ads (e.g. bidders)
